Job Responsibilities

The computer security specialist will not only handle the entire network of computers within a business, but he will also keep all the employees up to date with various security policies and certifications as needed. Additionally, the computer security specialist will also install and support all anti-virus and other relevant company software programs, implement and troubleshoot any security policies regarding internal computers, networks and the data that travels on them.

The computer security role encompasses all aspects of the access of and modifications to any computers and sensitive information that may be kept on them. Keeping hackers out and the data in is what a computer security specialist does best in addition to reporting any suspicious activity on the network or any individual computer. Monitoring the access and control points of sensitive data within the computers in order to keep a company’s data safe is the most important job in addition to training the other employees within a company to do the same.

Training and Education Requirements

To become a computer security specialist, the candidate must attain at least a high school diploma or a General education Diploma first. After the completion of general education studies, the candidate should attain at least an associate’s degree in computer networking, computer information technologies or computer science. Most course work for a computer security career will encompass the basics in information technology such as how to network a computer, how to set up and network a router or modem, how to install and configure anti-virus software, how to operate all operating systems in a proficient manner and so on.

Most associate’s degrees in any of the computer fields will teach the fundamentals of computers and their security. The more specialized courses will include studies such as server maintenance, software installations and maintenance, ethics and law concerning the Internet and “cyber crime,” computer forensics, database and network infrastructure and architecture and more.