Job Responsibilities

Working on large or small projects with other programmers and software engineers. In this capacity, they may help to troubleshoot potential problems and in the design phase of many software programs. Aided by programs that help to change software into the computer’s language, programmers can now write more specific parts of the program. Their work helps computers and systems work more smoothly without problems and at a more efficient level. In addition, programmers also write programs for educational software, desktop publishing, business and personnel finances and computer games.

The computer programmer has to have excellent technical skills and knowledge, ability to work well with others, and be willing to work on the international scene. Increasing focus is given to those who are able to work with programs that deal with the Internet and applications for the web. These individuals also must be willing to keep learning on a continual basis, as the changes in technology and software happens on a rapid basis. This is also critical as newer computer systems continue to reach higher levels of complexity. When a large project is involved, being able to work well on a team is required. A number of professionals from within the industry may be needed to handle the tasks and logistics of a large project for an extended period of time. Being able to brainstorm, troubleshoot and collaborate with others can make project completion run smoother.

Training and Education Requirements

Those wanting to enter the field of computer programming can receive training in a variety of levels. Some schools offer a two-year associate’s degree or a certificate program. This may be adequate training to enter some positions within the field, but many choose to pursue a four year bachelors degree. In some cases, the individual may be required to have achieved a graduate level degree in programming to be eligible for the position. Many who have a degree in areas such as accounting, business and finance may study courses related to computer programming. Computer programmers will usually graduate from a bachelor degree program with a major in math, computer science or information systems. Internships and other hands-on experience opportunities provided needed experience in the field. And attending seminars and continuing education programs also help the computer programmer to keep up with the latest changes and new advancements in technology.