Job Responsibilities

Furthermore, the database administrator is also responsible for the efficiency of the system. It is there job to make sure that all computers within an organization work together effectively. When users report a problem, the database administrator must trouble shoot to determine the source of the problems. In addition, necessary upgrades are researched and implemented by this professional. Some company’s also expect the specialist to protect the computer system against threats.

It is important for a database administrator to experiment with different database software programs. The database specialist is then able to recommend the best software for a particular company. The software must be designed to meet the unique needs of the company. This contributes to the smooth running of the organization. Old software information has to be merged with the new updated systems. This process is crucial to the success of the new software. The database specialist is focused on the efficient performance of the computer systems within an organization.

The database administrator works in an office setting that is well lighted and comfortable. The typical schedule for these professionals is a basic 40 hour week. In emergency situations, the database specialist may have to work overtime. This is usually rare. Many of these specialists are able to perform their duties remotely. This can be done outside of the office. Injuries are limited to those that occur from excessive sitting, typing, or computer eye strain. This is not common for most database administrators.

Training and Education Requirements

Most database administrators have some type of degree. Employers prefer a bachelor’s degree, but some also accept an associate’s degree. If a person has an associate’s degree, the employer will look more closely at work experience and certifications. Many of the database specialists start out in entry level positions, and they will advance into more specialized positions in the company. Computer science and information degrees are the most common degrees that professionals in this field possess. Some in this field obtain a bachelor’s degree in another major. This bachelor degree along with specific coursework in computer science may be sufficient for a job in this field. A bachelor’s degree in computer science takes the average student four years to finish. During the degree program, the student will take mathematics, computer science, statistics, and other computer information courses. Generalized classes in English, history, and other subjects are also included in the degree program.

Furthermore, most employers expect a database administrator to have an advanced degree. It can take 2 or 3 years to complete a master’s degree in computer science. Relevant work experience in this field is very important.