Job Responsibilities

The responsibilities of computer information systems managers are centered around networking and connectivity. This is the most important part of their management duties. The managers must assure that all end users must be able to connect to the network. Managers are therefore responsible for developing plans to resolve any points of failure on the network.

Managers in computer information systems also play the lead role in developing budgets and plans for future upgrades and the types of software that is used within the organization. All of the software that is used is a direct result of the decisions by management. This includes virus software, operating systems, word processing suites, and the email system that is used.

This allows the computer information systems manager to direct the future of technology within an organization. Lots of changes are made through an organization and the manager has to review costs and budgets to ensure that funds are used appropriately for any upgrades and changes made in the technology infrastructure.

Not only is this important in operating systems and applications, but it is also relevant to the equipment used to connect to the network. Switches, routers, and network cabling are all elements that the computer information systems manager must handle.

Network security and data backup completes the cycle of management activity in computer information systems. The management of this is one of the most important parts in the management cycle. An organization cannot risk the possibility of losing data through virus infections or device failures. For this reason, computer information system managers must work diligently to implement security and data recovery options in the development of their technology plans.

Training and Education Requirements

A college degree is preferred in this field for managers because the position requires a proven level of ability that excels beyond the basics. Computer information systems manager typically hold degrees in Computer or Management Information Systems. This consists of class courses structured around data communications, programming, and management information systems. The courses also include marketing, accounting, and finance. These are all valuable classes for managers that need a well rounded background with additional knowledge of budgeting and accounting.