New & Changed Features for OrangeHRM ver 2.0 (30/10/2006)

	In OrangeHRM-ver-2.0 Leave module is introduced.

New & Changed Features for OrangeHRM ver 1.2 (16/08/2006)

	The main idea behind releasing OrangeHRM-ver-1.2 is to make the application more 
	usable in terms of streamlining the UIs and functionality, etc. 


	Admin Module
	Streamlining functionality meant that some of the features available in previous 
	releases were removed since they were not particularly useful in current feature 
	specification. 
	
	The removed features include;
	
	- Job profiling; (Job Descriptors, Designation Description, etc.)
	- Extra Curricular Activities 
	- Bank Information
	- Cash/Non-cash Benefits
	- Tax Details

	Furthermore the terminology used previously was changed;

		+ Hierarchy Definition/Company Hierarchy was changed to Company Structure
		+ Corporate Title and Designation was combined and named as Job Title
		+ Salary Grade was changed to Pay Grade
		+ Qualifications are structured into; Education, Skills, Licenses, Languages 

	Some UI enhancements include;
	
		+ Company Structure now features a tree hierachy to illustrate the company structure
		+ There are composite UIs which enables the user to do every thing on one page
		
	User/User Group creation is now moved into the Admin Module

		User
			* Users will not be able to delete the user account they have used to login
			* Users are divided into HR Admin users and Ordinary users. 
					+ all HR Admin Users should belong to a User Group
					+ they can exist as an employee in PIM and have access to ESS
					+ all Normal Users should exist as Employees in PIM
				
		User-Groups
			* User cannot delete the user group he belongs to
			* Ability to define reports is given at the time of User Group creation.

	PIM
	
	now in PIM once the employee is created, all the parts of PIM that keeps track of an 
	employee information can now be entered in a single page and saved at once.
	
	following additional records can now be kept;
	
		+ 	records of children
		+	records of dependents
		+	records of emergency contacts
		+	records	of licenses


New & Changed Features for OrangeHRM ver 1.0 (15/03/2006)

New Features

- PIM (employee photograph/Report To)
- ESS
- Reports

PIM;

* Employee Information now contains the facility to maintain the 
employee's photograph.
Employee photograph could be included (not mandatory) while an employee 
is added to
Employee Information and can also be updated (replaced) with latest 
photographs in edit mode.

* Report To
This feature allows to define the ‘report to’ hierarchy of all employees 
(supervisors/subordinates)
and reporting type (direct/indirect); On selecting an employee, all the 
supervisors/subordinates
assigned to that employee will be listed separately at the bottom of the 
page. To add a new supervisor/subordinate,
simply select the supervisor/subordinate from the pop-up window that can 
be opened by clicking on the button next
to the 'Employee ID' field. The reporting method should also be selected 
as : direct/indirect. To edit an existing
supervisor/subordinate, click on the Employee ID of the relevant 
supervisor/subordinate in the lists below
and make the necessary changes. To un-assign a supervisor/subordinate, 
simply delete the supervisor/subordinate
from the relevant list.


ESS
Employee Self Service facilitates employees to edit their own personal 
data without the
intervention of the HR Department. However, sensitive data would only be 
displayed and would
not be editable using ESS. If the user logged in is not a HR Admin user, 
then the user will be
presented with this module with his/her employee information enabling 
them to edit their personal
data. (sensitive data such as salary grade, corporate tile, etc. will 
remain read-only).

Note: All users are now classified as normal users and HR admin users. A 
user is
considered as HR Admin if the HR Admin checkbox is selected in the user 
creation form
under maintenance module. All other employees are considered as ordinary 
users.

Reports
This feature produces customized reports (users will be able define 
report criteria and result fields).
Different reports can be defined and stored. Reports can be generated 
after providing the report criteria.
Reports can only be generated by users who belong to user groups 
assigned to view those reports at the
time of report definition.

The ability to define reports depends on the user group of the currently 
logged on user. If the user
group of the currently logged on user is allowed to define reports, then 
the user will be displayed with
a separate tab on the sub-menu to define reports. When defining reports, 
a set of selection criteria and
report fields will be provided to the user. Users can name the report, 
select the relevant criteria and
required fields. After saving the reports, the user will then be asked 
to assign user groups to the reports.
Only users belonging to the assigned user groups will be able to view 
reports. User-groups can also be assigned
and removed at a later time once the report has been defined. This can 
be done by selecting reports and clicking
on Assign User Groups to go to the Assign User Groups page.

To view a report, click on View Reports in the sub-menu and then select 
the report from the list. Depending upon
the criteria defined for the report, you will be asked to enter criteria 
data required to generate the report.
To summarize the report you can de-select fields (only the selected 
criteria and fields during report definition
would appear in this form) and click on Generate Report.

Changed

All Admin/PIM/Maintenance
All items newly created having system generated codes may not be stored 
with the same code displayed earlier.


Maintenance
User
* Users will not be able to delete the user account they have used to login
* Users are divided into HR Admin users and Ordinary users. If the ‘Is 
HR Admin’
flag is selected, then all the modules (Admin, PIM, Reports, Maintenance,
Bug Tracker will be available to them). However if the ‘Is HR Admin’ 
flag is
not selected the user will only be given access to ESS module.

User-Groups
* Admin User group cannot be deleted
* Ability to define reports is given at the time of User Group creation.
